Elevator pitch (287 characters)
------------------------

Role-Playing Games use familiar logical and mathematical patterns to recreate a game world. These have been implemented with many tools including PCs, hand-held consoles, and pen and paper.

In this talk you'll learn about common development patterns by recreating some of these systems.

------------------------
Long abstract (778 chars)
-----------------------

Re-engineering the RPG

Since the 1970s, role-playing games have been designed
and built to allow players to recreate fantasy worlds. 
Logical and mathematical systems had to be developed to
understand these worlds along with the characters, objects
and interactions within them.

The essence of software development is to do just that;
observe the problems presented by a specific domain, 
understand them, and then find ways to solve these 
problems using the tools we work with.

In this talk, by recreating and solving common problems
presented in the design of role-playing games, you'll learn 
about some common patterns and problems in web application 
development and architecture. These include database normalisation, 
finding performance bottlenecks, and data optimisation.


----------------------
Notes - 761 chars
Described by papercall as:
Notes will only be seen by reviewers during the CFP process. This is where you should explain things such as technical requirements, why you're the best person to speak on this subject, etc...
----------------------

The talk will be a fairly entry-level introduction to the thought process behind reducing a problem domain to a codable solution. It covers some common issues faced by most software developers at some point in their career. Including how to structure data in a database, find performance bottle necks and design software to do the heavy lifting once. It draws on 7 years of enterprise software development, integrating with large legacy databases. Many people who work with technology will also take an interest in games, and how the systems behind them work. I'm hoping to tap into this shared interest to help engage an audience with these ideas and help them to write more efficient software in future.

Standard technical requirements, vision from a laptop.

------------------------------
From 'Strange Loop' field "What will the attendee learn?

The narrative of this talk consists of three threads. Firstly the process of taking software from a concept to a working system, dividing the problem into actionable parts and encapsulating those as distinct, manageable packages of code. This will mainly centre round the idea of characters from role playing games, which simplify the problem of quantifying, and recreating a living person. The games decide what aspects of that person are important, and what information they need about the individual to enact their process.

Another strand will be common Object Orientated patterns, I'll be expressing some of the common actions of a desk-top or computer-based role playing game in a system which demonstrates (to date) commands, mixins and factories. (The code this is based on is currently in progress, there may be more as this project continues)

The third thread, and the original idea for this talk, is performance. Role-playing games have undergone many iterations with many systems, from a system comprised of human, dice and manuals to computer systems such as the Game Boy to more modern gaming consoles. This means that they are full of examples of where a system has been optimised to work efficiently with the tools it's comprised of. I'll encourage programmers to think of the main strengths and weaknesses of their own tools, and use that as a starting point for optimisation. I'm mainly focusing on the reliance of web applications on databases, I'll look into how to build code which handles this relationship more efficiently. With some real world examples of fetching and interpreting data on a physical medium (paper).


Bio (strange loop)
-------------------

Ruby on Rails developer, radio presenter, musician and technology enthusiast. Nearly seven years of writing software against large legacy databases and keeping large corporations happy has given me some detailed perspective on converting requirements into software and keeping the code running smoothly. I’m always keen to share my experience and curiosity about what can be achieved with technology.
